The council of viziers believe the grand viziers story and start discussing the various solutions to the issue that they are faced with. After an hour long discussion they decide that they should indeed overthrow the king and since it was the grand vizier whose wisdom and judgement saw that issue, he should be the next King. They plot against Prince Faiz and decide that they should take his life when he is fast asleep. They reach the general consensus that they should execute this plan as soon as possible and that the best night to do it would be the night that is coming up.

Night falls and they proceed to the prince room and see him sleeping, they very quickly strike him in the eye with the sharp point of a candle holder near his bed. This startles the prince and he wakes up in great pain. The prince quickly reads the room and realises the viziers were there to kill him. All the viziers entered through the main door of the prince's room and were standing on one side of the bed. The prince with one functioning eye the prince makes out that the other side of the bed is not surrounded by anyone. He swiftly rolls over to that side of the bed and bed and runs out the window into the dense forest that was behind his palace.

The next day King Iqbal arrives with his cousin King Mustapha. The Vizier had spotted both the kings approaching the palace from far away and prepared to kill the King Iqbal. As soon as King Iqbal enters the palace, the grand vizier takes a sword to his head and slashes it, separating his head from the rest of his body. King Mustapha sees that this is a great chance to take over a kingdom, he draws his swords and runs it across the grand vizier's throat killing the Grand Vizier in an instant. He then announces himself as the king of the Kingdom.
