The other viziers even though they were below the grand vizier in terms of ranking, they were no less wiser than him. Instead of blindly following his orders, they used their judgement and saw right through the grand vizier's word. They realised that it was not the king who was not fit for the position but rather the grand vizier who was not fit for the position for he wished bad for the King. They decide to take the grand vizier captive. One of them tells the grand vizier that whatever he is saying is a lie and they wish nothing good for the king. They said that for his treachery they will take him captive and will put him in the prison until the king arrives and then the King himself can decide what to do with the grand vizier.

The grand vizier runs to the prince Faiz chamber and takes the dagger that he carried out of royal pride and puts it to the Prince Faiz throats and threatens to run it across should they not clear the path and let him go free. Prince Faiz punches the grand vizier in the guts and runs away to the stable where he mounts a horse and rides away to his uncle's kingdom. Prince Faiz's punch causes the grand vizier to collapse to the ground. The other viziers then take him captive.

Prince Faiz upon arriving at his uncle's palace finds his father the King and tells him all that has happened in the presence of his uncles. His uncle realises that this is a good opportunity to usurp his brother's kingdom. He grabs Prince Faiz and puts him in a death grip. King Mustapha then takes out his dagger and tries to stab Prince Faiz in the neck in an attempt to kill him. In defense he pushes his uncle's hand upward as he is thrusting forwards. This causes the dagger to go straight into Prince Faiz's right eye. King Iqbal saw all this unfold before him and thought that his beloved son was no more. He decides that he should save himself and he runs towards the horse that his son has ridden from his Kingdom. King Mustapha seeing that King Iqbal escaped realises that his plan has failed. He turns to Prince Faiz and tells him that he will spare his life if he leaves both his and King Iqbal's kingdom never to return. Prince Faiz says that he will do whatever it takes to live and agrees to do as his uncles said.
